She feared staying alone in the farmhouse
She guided the tourists around the castle
She runs everyday in order to lose weight
She sang perfectly in the hall last night
Somebody is always complaining to others
They don't often have a bad day this year
We regard the matter as nothing important
We'll take our holiday sometime in August
Could you direct me to the station, please?
Have you cleared your luggage with customs ?
He bothered me with a great many questions
He does exercises every day in the morning
How do I control myself? I can't calm down
I dig songs and I like pop music very much
I'd like to cash a traveler's check please
I'd like to pick sea shells this afternoon
It's odd that they didn't reply our letter
John seldom gets together with his friends
Many people have been out of work recently
Please give my best regards to your family
Some people have compared books to friends
The bat together with the balls was stolen
The color of her dress suits her very well
The days get longer and the nights get shorter
The dress doesn't fit her. She is too thin
The examination put a lot of stress on him
The mother sat the child at a little table
There is some difference between the twins
They insisted on staying rather than going
Trust me, the game is really worth playing
Unlike her friends, she never gave up hope
Well done! You are always doing a good job!
We're planning a tour to Italy this summer
Were there any letters for me this morning?
Why isn't Mrs. Lee's cat catching the mice?
Your English is improving little by little
Could you tell me where I can wash my hands?
Do you have any plans for the long weekend?
He decided to bring a suit against his boss
He devoted his life to the study of science
He had to choose between death and dishonor
His previous attempts had been unsuccessful
I determined that nothing should be changed
I don't think it will lead to a good result
I have 4 books and 2 magazines to check out
I think I've filled in everything correctly
I'm not sure whether I have locked the door
It took him a little time to fix that watch
My father is at home looking for the ticket
Not until last week did I get a work permit
She intends to make teaching her profession
The letter &quot;x&quot; stands for an unknown number
The sight of the dead body scared him stiff
There are lots of huge buildings in Beijing
There is an interesting film on Channel one
They plan to immigrate to Finland next year
We enjoyed driving along the new expressway
We need to cooperate perfectly to win the game
We need more than listening
