This cellar room is very damp in the rainy season
Computers are becoming a part of our everyday life
Every man is fool sometimes, but none at all times
He dreamed of traveling to remote South Sea Islands
How can I climb up that wall! I wish I were a bird!
However, Susan has not really made up her mind yet
I really think a little exercise would do you good
I will never forget the days that I spent with you
we got a bad headache, and my nose is running
Many young girls dream of being a fashion model
Most of the earth's surface is covered by water
Somebody's knocking at the door. I'll answer it
The number 13 bus will take you to the hospital
They celebrated his birthday with a dance party
They misplaced this book under other categories
They played a shameful part in the whole affair
As a matter of fact, he was pretending to be ill
I will speak against anything I know to be wrong
In spite of the heavy rain, she went to the shop
No matter what happened, he would not say a word
No one knows the location of the hidden treasure
The old lady enjoys a quiet life with her family
The population of the city is close to a million
We are prohibited from smoking on school grounds
Growth, however, brings new problems and concerns
He appears to be your friend but I doubt if he is
I am so full that I would burst with another bite
I have two cats. One is white, the other is black
I'm sorry, these 2 books are 3 days overdue
Jalu has forgotten falling off his bicycle
Manners are quite different from country to country
Not only did I know her, but I was her best friend
The best-known movie awards are the Academy Awards
We've got to do something about the neighbor's dog!
Will you come and join us for dinner on Sunday?
Do you think people are a company's greatest wealth?
He thinks himself somebody, but we think him nobody
I believe I haven't reached the summit of my career
It is no matter whether you get there early or late
It's against the rules to handle the ball in soccer
The nurse assisted the doctor in the operating room
What I do on my own time is nobody else's business
What I want to do is different from those of others
You forget to write down the date of your departure
&quot;I wish I'd known about that rule earlier&quot;, she said
Could you tell me your secret for a long, happy life?
He holds a position of great responsibility upon him
It is said he has secret love affairs with two women!
Number 13 buses run much more frequently, don't they?
They are only too delighted to accept the invitation
We are going to have the final examination next week
And now medical care helps to keep people alive longer
Do you think you'll be able to go to sleep fight away?
I am in charge of the company when the manager is out
I borrowed a notebook from Tom and I lent it to Marry
I'm doing some washing and John is cooking dinner
Were there any exciting incidents during your journey?
As far as policy is concerned, I have to say something
Could you tell me what the maximum weight allowance is?
He came out of the library, a large book under his arm
The brothers differ from each other in their interests
Although we can't see these atoms, they really do exist
I am familiar with the casual atmosphere in the company
Most people eat, write, and work with their fight hands
Only by working hard can we succeed in doing everything
Take it easy, you will be all right in a couple of days
The Beatles represented part of the spirit of their age
There being no one to help me, I had to do it all alone
How much cloth does it take to make a skirt for the girl?
With all these mouths to feed, he didn't know what to do
I forgot to prepare the speech I'm supposed to give today
It's supposed to start at 6:30 sharp, but I doubt it will
On behalf of my company, I would like to welcome you here
She's been quite different since coming back from America
Today it is common that women and girls make up in public
I have to transfer to No. ll bus, but where is the bus stop?
I supposed him to be very clever but he was in fact a fool
The rabbit ran to the woods and did not come back any more
Tom and Mary congratulated us on the birth of our daughter
I can't help eating sweets whenever they are in my presence
